OK, so it's time for us to look at this enter a bill, which is a text field, text fields can be a
little bit complicated because there are few moving parts that we need to really understand.
I mean, overall, it's not that bad.
OK, let's let's take a look at this.
So the idea is when we add value here and reveal we want to make sure that, of course, we want to
make sure that this value is propagated everywhere, meaning all of the other composable functions need
to be aware of it one way or the other, because that's what drives everything, right?
If we add a number here, the entire bill right to the actual amount.
Only then will we be able to say split and have meaningful values, meaningful values.
I mean, meaningful total per person and so forth.
On top of that, we have the tip right.
We have two slide left or right to get the percentage of tip that we want to pay or add to our bill.
So there's a lot of moving parts here.
So we need to be careful where we put things and how the that thing compares or interacts with other
variables, other states in this app.
So what do we need to do, actually?
There are different ways to do this, especially when it comes to creating text fields.
Now we could right away just go ahead and create a text field here, or we could do a different kind
of text field so we can use, for instance, the outline text field and go from there.
And that's totally fine.
We can do that and pass all these variables that we need and go from there.
But I'm not going to do that, at least not in this example.
What are we going to do is we are going to create instead of a project site here of our inside of our
package, I'm going to create yet another package.
So right click, say new.
Package, this is good, it's just a separate code might separate all the classes that we create that
are.
Related, we put in one package, so this package I'm going to call components.
This is just a place where we can create components, which means usually you create widgets or functions
in this case, composable functions that do a certain thing, right?
So you can put that inside of a components.
And so now I'm going to create a new class or Kotlin class or file here, just say file and components.
All right.
So all the components we want, we can add them here.
OK.
So the one component I'm going to create here, say, at composable, of course, and then I'm going
to say, fine, I'm going to say input field.
OK.
A section, all right.
So what are we going to be passing here?
Well, we're going to be passing a few things because remember this imput field want to make sure that
it can be used anywhere, OK, so it will encapsulate all the behaviors of a text field.
And we can customize as we see fit.
All right, so I'm going to pass, first of all, a modifier.
So I passed the wrong one, you see, is the reflection.
A want that we want a different kind of modifier, which is nice.
Keep typing modifier.
Get the Android X compose UI.
There we go.
And because I want to make sure that this modifier here is not required.
So I'm going to add, say, modifier a sash to say this is a default parameter that if they if users
don't add a modifier when they call input field composable, right, it's OK.
We're just going to use whatever we have inside here.
So this is optional.
That's how you make a modifier optional.
OK, now still inside here, we need to pass a few other parameters.
Now, every input field has to have some sort of state because the idea really is to be listening to
what is being typed here and we can validate and we can see if it's time for us to get rid of the.
Keyboard and so forth, so there's a lot of things that are happening, so we need to control that.
So what I'm going to add here, I see it as a parameter is value state, OK, the value state of our
text field.
Now, because everything is about state in this case, that means we have to pass a variable that is
allowed or is supposed to mutate.
But most importantly, it's a it's supposed to hold values.
Who's reads and writes are observed by a composer.
Right, so any function that it's calling this function here, this composable can react to those values.
That's the whole idea.
So I can pass one here by saying mutable state like that.
And again, pass type that it will conform to, which is going to be string.
OK.
In this case, also, I'm going to pass just a few minutes later, label ID, you will see all of this
later.
I'm going to be a string and then I'm going to pass enabled.
Which is going to be a bullion, so let's say bullion as such, and then I'm going to pass is single
line as to.
It's also going to be important to say in this case, whenever I want to call this input field, I can
set up to say, OK, I want this input field to be just single line.
Meaning when they enter text, it's never going to expand to allow multiple lines of text as it's been
entered.
All right.
And then I'm going to say keyboard
type, because remember because remember being an input text field, there are different kinds of keyboard
types.
So we need to in this case, set up the keyboard or at least tell the compose compiler what keyboard,
what kind of keyboard we want.
So I'm going to just go ahead and say for the sake of time was a keyboard type like this and say it's
going to be equal to keyboard type.
Not ASCII.
We want no.
Which is saying we want to be able to just enter numbers.
Now we could also make it more flexible in that users can pass the time.
But this is fine.
All right.
And next, I'm going to pass the.
I am e action like this.
What is this?
Well, I am action if you hover over it says signals the keyboard, what type of action should be displayed?
Right.
And we will see how this work, for instance.
So in this case, our enemy action.
You just said it.
What a way to say I am action.
There are different actions or Skoda's next.
There's none.
And in this case, it was going to use the next.
So when something is entered, we want to show.
OK, what should they do?
They being the users like then should show at the bottom here.
If the keyboard, if the keyboard is showing, should show at the bottom, say next or go or whatever
or enter.
So we specifying that.
OK.
And then I'm going to pass on action again.
And when I say keyboard actions.
There's and I'm going to set that directly to, say, keyboard actions.
I don't want at Lambda, I just want to get a default keyboard actions.
All right.
So this is what we may potentially pass and when we invoke our input field.
So now that we have our parameters created, now we go inside of our input.
Now we go inside of this composable.
So the contents of this composable, what do we want to show?
Well, we want to show the outline in this case, outline text field.
That is what we want through different kind of text fields we're going to use outlined.
So for value here, we are really creating a safe value state to get the value such right.
And every text field, be it outlined or any other kind.
If it's text field, we have this call, we have this parameter or argument, we have to pass.
It's a callback that is triggered when the input service updates to text.
Right.
So what we want, what is that we want to happen as we update the text?
Well, in this case, I'm just going to go ahead and pass elaborate on the value text.
And I'm going to say the state, right?
It's going to be in this an integer it get the value and when to pass it.
I'm going to make it equal to it.
So whatever we getting from our text field?
Here we're going to just pass into our values state, which is what we have created at the top here.
The actual value as they type.
And if you have over a line text field, there's so many things you can pass, right?
One of which is we can pass a label and value and so many other things.
All right, let's continue.
So make sure we are inside of the parenthesis here.
This is where we pass the parameters.
Yes, we are.
I'm going to say comma in.
Let's add something else for the label of this.
For the label of for the label argument notice, here it is indeed a label that we can just enter and
put sort of a lambda here.
I'm going to say passing in a text in this text is going to have what is going to be have a label ID.
So essentially, we're going to have some sort of like this, something like says, enter a bill like
that.
OK, so we are customizing our input fields.
So when we call input field, as you will see later, we can pass.
What is it that we want to show for a label in passive state and so forth?
All right.
I hope this is not too bad.
And then I'm going to say leading icon if I want to this case, yes, I do.
But again, simplifies our life and we invoke the icon.
Look at this.
This is all coming from compose, so we can actually add an icon from here.
Very good.
So I'm going to use the image vector.
There are different icon.
Functions there, image factor in this case, I can then invoke the icons right from Andrew compose
material icons.
All this comes, you know, by default and then I can't go to a foul, default or field.
I'm going to go to rounded OK and say, I'm going to say attach.
Let's see.
Attach money.
Now here's a problem.
Some of the material icons are not included.
From the get go in our project, that means then we'll have to include them in our project.
The reason being is because these icons can be heavy in a sense that can actually add more bytes to
your project overall size of your project.
So that's the reason why they're not readily available.
Some of them are, but most of them are not OK.
So if you want to get more, I will have to actually add to that dependency, which will allow us to
get all those icons.
And how do we do that then show you?
So we'll have to open.
Let's make sure that we don't have errors here.
So for now, I'm just going to add something different.
All right.
So we don't have an error.
Let's see running or refresh.
OK, so we have something and let's finalize this.
We need to put in a description because of visually impaired users.
So we need to add description of images and icons.
Are we adding I'm going to say money icon, even though it's a refresh.
That's okay.
All right.
So we're going to open our project and then we're going to go to Gradle scripts and then we're going
to go to there's two grails as the jet, the app project Gradle and there is a module grade.
Also, click on this one.
And what we want to do is scroll down anywhere here, and most likely, you're going to see all of this.
So it's OK.
We'll come back to all of this and we'll fix or update things.
But for now, what are we going to do somewhere at the bottom here?
What I like to do is add to four slashes to say comment and then say icons and then what you are going
to do.
I'm going to say implementation such.
OK, wait for a second.
Get rid of that and put it in sort of double quotes and start typing something like this Android not
compose.
OK.
Same material.
I know this because I have on the project and then emcee material.
Make sure you type exactly.
Dash icons.
Dash extended and then.
We put Colin and then you see dollar sign, say, compose.
Version like this.
OK, so once you're done, let's go ahead and say sink.
So what are we doing here, we added, is dependency, which will allow the cradle, which is the mastermind
of the entire project, to go and fetch listed dependency at this.
To go and fetch this in the repository that is really far away and get all those material icons that
we need.
OK.
I can only use this if you need certain icons at the default project doesn't give you.
So it may take a little while you can look at the bottom here, Gradle is working, doing its work,
just wait and come back when it's done.
All right, after a few moments, you will see that everything is good.
Nothing is.
Everything has stopped and that's good.
No errors.
Nothing.
OK, let's close out of this.
Now back to our components.
Let's go back to our icons, Randy.
We don't want to refresh.
We want something special, which is money.
Say money.
They we go attach money.
Now we have access to a plethora of icons, which is what we want.
All right, there we go.
OK, so continuing right, then I'm going to put the this pass another parameter here or argument,
which is single line.
This is you see now the the thought process here because we're passing all of these parameters and then
we are using them because this is going to be customized.
We're going to call anywhere we want.
We can pass this parameters and then we to construct our outline to text field passing.
With these parameters, we're passing on this case arguments.
We're going to be passing, right?
So here, I'm just going to say is single line.
So I'm going to pass whatever the users or whatever is passed here.
When we invoke input field to you, then I'm going to say text style that we want to show here.
I'm just going to say text style, and I put a font size.
About 18 got ESP.
That's another unit to use when it comes to test text, I should say you should use ESP instead of DPI.
OK.
And we want a color say color when I use material theme.
Colors, and I'm going to use the on background, so this is really good and will make sense later on
background is the color that is used throughout the app.
Whether it's in dark mode or in a light mode, it will still show this text.
Right?
All right.
Let's continue here again.
We still need sort of outlined text fields, so there are a lot of things that we can actually customize.
If you have over again, you can see all of these parameters that we've looked at.
So textile, when we look at that enabled and so forth.
Right.
And let's go and add yet another one.
In this case, I want to add the enabled.
And for enabled, I'm going to say I want this to be enabled, so I'm going to pass whatever we're getting
from the user or from where this is being called.
And then we're past the keyboard.
Options.
OK?
In the say, keyboard options such and there was a keyboard inside plastic keyboard type that we are
passing.
Keyboard type.
OK.
So setting up and then I'm going to say I am in action.
It's going to be the me action that we've passed.
And that's that and they're going to continue.
I say keyboard actions, and now I'm going to say on action, which is exactly what we passed.
You can see now all of these parameters, all of these primaries are now visible or not are now highlighted
because we are using them.
So it doesn't look like much, but we did the groundwork here.
Now we can use this input field anywhere, as you will see in the next video, and pass everything in
and pass all these arguments and we should be good.
Now it looks like I need to look.
It looks like our modifier here is not being called.
Let's go to you have over again the old text text field.
We should pass the modifier.
Yes, let's come down here.
After text, I'm just going to say modifier when I said to our modifier that we're passing potentially
and say that.
Padding, just use some padding here somewhere at the bottom, padding about 10 deep and start.
Looks like we need to import TP, the unit and start is also going to be 10 dpi and is also going to
be 10 dpi.
So essentially we're saying whenever we call this input field, we're going to create this outline text
field and we're going to add some sort of padding around it.
So in the next video, we are going to actually use this input inside of our main where we are constructing
our user interface.